Grenada re-elected to UNESCO				




Grenada GIS – Grenada has been re-elected to serve on the Executive Board of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), for the term 2021-2025.



At the 41st session of the General Conference of UNESCO, now underway in Paris, France, Grenada secured one of the 3 seats reserved for Caricom Countries within the Latin American and Caribbean Group (GRULAC) on the Executive Board of UNESCO. The 2 other Caricom member states elected were Haiti and Saint Lucia.



As a member of the Executive Board for the term 2017-2021, and in spite of the challenging circumstances due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Grenada, through its Permanent Delegation to UNESCO, actively contributed to advancing the cause of Small Island Developing States (SIDS) and other priorities of UNESCO’s mandate. These priorities include quality and higher education, ocean management and risk prevention, access to science and innovation, building inclusive knowledge societies, the fight against doping in sport, the promotion of the diversity of cultural expression and the preservation of the natural, tangible and intangible cultural heritage.



Grenada has also been an active elected member of several intergovernmental bodies of UNESCO.



The uncertainties of the global situation linked to the COVID-19 pandemic, have made it imperative for an active and effective presence on the UNESCO Executive Board to further develop and build on achievements for the benefit of UNESCO’s priority areas and those of particular significance to Grenada and the wider Caribbean Community.



UNESCO seeks to build peace through international cooperation in Education, the Sciences, Culture, Communication and Information. UNESCO’s programmes contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals defined in Agenda 2030, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2015. The UNESCO Executive Board is made up of 58 members, each elected for a 4-year term.



About UNESCO Executive Board



The Executive Board is one of the three constitutional organs of UNESCO (together with the General Conference and the Secretariat) and is elected by the General Conference. The Executive Board acts under the authority of the General Conference, examining the programme of work for the Organisation and corresponding budget estimates submitted to it by the Director-General.