Alaska Airlines inaugural service in Belize				




Alaska Airlines began nonstop service to Belize City, Belize from Seattle and Los Angeles on Friday.



The inaugural service to Belize happens to coincide with Garifuna Settlement Day, one of the nation’s most important holidays which celebrates the arrival of the Garifuna people in 1802.



Alaska’s service to Belize operates four times a week between Los Angeles and Belize City (BZE) and twice-weekly between Seattle and Belize City.







StartsEndsCity PairDepartsArrivesFrequencyAircraftNov. 19Year-roundLAX – BZE11:00 a.m.5:30 p.m.M, W, F, Sa737-800Nov. 20Year-roundBZE – LAX10:00 a.m.1:30 p.m.T, Th, Sa, Su737-800Nov. 19May 21SEA – BZE8:30 a.m.4:35 p.m.F, Sa737-800Nov. 20May 22BZE – SEA11:00 a.m.3:55 p.m.Sa, Su737-800







Alaska Airlines’ VP of network and alliances Brett Catlin is elated about the milestone.



“For nearly two decades the Belizean market has been on our radar. We’re thrilled to now be inaugurating service from both Seattle and Los Angeles. Belize offers terrific family-friendly, eco-conscious possibilities—from iconic islands to lush jungles and ancient sites. And it’s closer than you might think: From L.A., it’s only a five-hour flight, and from Seattle, it’s six hours.”



Belize’ Minister of Tourism & Diaspora Relations noted that the opportunity will bring the country’s tourism to greater heights.



“In addition to attracting greater business investment and human capital, this new flight will also spur tourism which is essential for Belize’s prosperity. It comes at a very opportune time as it further boosts the industry’s recovery efforts. We, therefore, value our partnership with Alaska Airlines in providing such a vital connectivity for travellers from the West Coast interested in reinvigorating themselves and relaxing in our tropical jewel while immersing in a rich, unique cultural experience.”



The Central American destination becomes the fourth country the airline currently serves from its West Coast hubs, joining Canada, Mexico and Costa Rica.