“Mini” trooping the colour for the Queen’s birthday				




Due to COVID-19, the Queen’s official birthday has been marked by a “mini” Trooping the Colour for the second year.



This year’s Trooping the Colour saw a reduced parade in the grounds of Windsor Castle, rather than in central London, led by the 2nd Battalion Scots Guards.



It is only the third time the event has been staged at Windsor.



Trooping the Colour has marked the official birthday of the British sovereign for more than 260 years and involves hundreds of soldiers, horses and musicians coming together each June in a major display of military precision, horsemanship and fanfare.



Lieutenant Colonel Guy Stone, who led the effort to prepare for the event, said it has been very difficult but he wanted to make the day special for her Majesty, the Queen.



“It’s been very challenging, but we like a challenge. COVID has got a lot to answer for in so many ways, it’s made this difficult but what we want to do more than anything is give the Queen a memorable and uplifting day.”



It is the first time the Queen’s official birthday has been marked since the loss of her beloved husband, the Duke of Edinburgh, in April.



The event ended with a 41 gun salute and a fly-past by the Red Arrows.



The Queen’s actual birthday is on 21 April but her official birthday is marked on the second Saturday of June each year.







The Queen’s Birthday Honours List 2021



‘Caring Nation’ is the centre of Queen’s Birthday Honours List 2021. 



In a press release, it is said that the roster — composed of celebrities, sports stars, COVID experts and community heroes had demonstrated extraordinary efforts in all four nations of the United Kingdom during the pandemic.



Almost 23% of recipients are recommended for COVID-19 service. Also, this year’s list is the most ethnically diverse list to date, with 15% of recipients coming from an ethnic minority background.



Oxford vaccine developer Professor Sarah Gilbert and the former chairman of the UK vaccine taskforce, Kate Bingham are both recognised with damehoods.



A knighthood is given to Professor Andrew Pollard, Professor of Paediatric Infection, University of Oxford for services to Public Health particularly during COVID-19. 



Commander of the British Empire (CBE) are awarded to Ian McCubbin, Manufacturing Expert on the Vaccine Taskforce Steering Committee, Vaccine Taskforce and Mark Proctor, Global Supply Strategy Director at AstraZeneca.



Divya Chadha Manek receives an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) for her work in the research and development of vaccines and the resulting clinical trials.



The honours system strives to be inclusive of all of the UK society. 



Of the 1,129 people who receive an award:



986 candidates have been selected at BEM, MBE and OBE level:323 at British Empire Medal (BEM)457 at Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE)206 at Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE)695 (62%) of the recipients are people who have undertaken outstanding work in their communities either in a voluntary or paid capacity;567 women are recognised in the List, representing 50% of the total (39% of recipients at CBE level and above are women);15% of the successful candidates come from an ethnic minority background:6.8% of recipients are from an Asian ethnic group;4.2% of recipients are from a Black ethnic group;3.3% of recipients with a mixed ethnic background;0.7% of recipients come from another ethnic background;9% of the successful candidates are disabled or have a long-term health condition;17.3% of recipients considered themselves to come from a lower socio-economic background; and5% of recipients are LGBT.



Full list can be found here.