Bahamians will go to the polls on September 16				




Prime Minister Dr Hubert Minnis announced that Bahamians will go to the polls on September 16, eight months before a general election is constitutionally due.



Minnis’ announcement came after Commissioner of Police Paul Rolle, in his capacity as Provost Marshall, read a proclamation from Sir Cornelius dissolving Parliament. 



“Earlier today, Parliament was dissolved. It is time for you, the people, to choose who you will elect to form the next government of the Commonwealth of The Bahamas. I have advised the Governor-General to issue the writs of election which will be held on Thursday, 16th of September, 2021.”



Minnis said the next government will have key decisions to make in enacting post-pandemic public health legislation, continued economic growth and rebuilding and renewing a post-COVID-19 Bahamas.



“It is time for the people to choose who they want to lead them as we move towards vaccinating all Bahamians,” he added.



With the election date now set, Minnis urged Bahamians to ensure that the country’s long and proud tradition of peaceful elections continues.



“We must discuss issues rigorously and peacefully, contrasting our various visions for the country. In our democratic tradition, the people rule. Their collective wisdom will decide our way forward, their collective wisdom will decide our shared future.”



He has also called on all political parties competing in the election to follow the health and safety protocols.



Meanwhile, Progressive Liberal Party (PLP) Leader Philip Davis said in a statement that the coming election will be likely the most consequential election since Independence.



“This election is about so much more than a choice between the PLP and the FNM: this election is about our country’s survival. “



The current term does not constitutionally expire until May 2022, five years after Minnis’ Free National Movement (FNM) defeated the Progressive Liberal Party (PLP) in the last election, winning 35 of the 39 seats in Parliament.