Tropical depression in the Caribbean could become major hurricane by Sunday				
Two Caribbean islands, Cayman Islands and Cuba, have issued storm warnings in their areas following the formation of a tropical depression in the region on Thursday,  according to information on the website of the U.S. National Weather Service. 



Forecasters anticipate Tropical Depression Nine to turn into a major hurricane by the time it reaches the northern U.S. Gulf Coast by Sunday. 



Late Thursday morning, the tropical depression had maximum sustained winds of 35 mph (56 kph). The system was found about 115 miles (185 kilometers) southwest of Negril, Jamaica, and about 210 miles (338 kilometers) southeast of Grand Cayman.



By Thursday night, the depression which is traveling northwest at about 13 mph (21 kph) is expected to become a tropical storm when it passes over the Cayman Islands.



“Gale force winds are also expected across the Cayman Islands overnight with even stronger gusts expected for the Sister Islands. The National Hurricane Center is monitoring this system, with a 90% chance of developing as environmental conditions are favorable for it to become even better organized,” an article by the Cayman Compass said, citing the island’s Hazard Management’s Facebook post Thursday morning.



Associated Press (AP) has reported that It could be a hurricane when it closes in on western Cuba and the southeastern Gulf of Mexico on Friday, and a major hurricane by the time it reaches the northern U.S. Gulf Coast on Sunday.



“The central U.S. Gulf Coast should start to see rain from the depression by early Sunday,” AP said.



Experts warned of possible flash floods and mudslides, as well as a storm surge of as much as 2 to 4 feet (.61 to 1 meter) above normal, along with “large and destructive waves.”



The swells generated by this system will begin affecting Jamaica, the Cayman Islands and Cuba tonight and Friday, Cayman Compass added. “These swells are likely to cause life-threatening surf and rip current conditions.”