Caribbean Airlines resumes direct flights to Saint Lucia				




On Monday, August 16, Caribbean Airlines resumed commercial operations to Saint Lucia with a non-stop service from Piarco International Airport (POS), Trinidad.



The arrival of BW432 at George F.L. Charles Airport (SLU), marked the airline’s first voyage to the destination since its closure in 2020 amid the global covid-19 pandemic. 



St Lucia Tourism Minister, The Honourable Dr Ernest Hilaire joined the Saint Lucia Tourism Authority’s (SLTA) Marketing Manager for Caribbean and Events, Christopher Gustave in commemorating the opening of another key tourism source market under the Caribcation brand. 



In 2019, the Caribbean was recognized as Saint Lucia’s second-largest market for stay-over arrivals. The 83,466 Caribbean arrivals recorded in 2019 was 7.2% more than arrivals recorded in 2018. 



Trinidad accounted for 18,971 visitors, a year-on-year increase of 10.56%. Hon. Dr Hilaire and Cristopher Gustave presented a special commemorative plaque depicting Saint Lucia’s iconic twin pitons and niche markets to Caribbean Airlines’ Captain Dale Harrison and accompanying crewmembers. 



Dr Hilaire noted “We are delighted to see the return of service to the destination with Caribbean Airlines and look forward to welcoming our returning nationals and visitors from Trinidad and Tobago. The Caribbean market is important to us and is one of our largest source markets for visitors to Saint Lucia. Having you back will certainly add a lot of flavour in many ways. I am sure that our smaller properties will be delighted and we appreciate the ease of transportation between our islands.” 



Saint Lucia was the fifth Caribbean destination added to the airline’s schedule for direct service into and out of Trinidad. The SLTA is working with the Airline through a very targeted digital campaign to promote the flight, and on-island offerings including accommodation, and the most compelling experiences. 



Caribbean Airlines CEO, Garvin Medera stated: “Caribbean Airlines is delighted to restart weekly service to St Lucia, which is one of our beloved markets. The enthusiastic welcome that we have received is heartening and we look forward to working closely with the SLTA to connect Saint Lucia to the region and beyond. The Caribcation campaign will serve to stimulate demand which will be good news for all stakeholders.”



Two lucky-seat passengers received special welcome packages, and the first 30 disembarking were gifted with branded items. 



As Caribbean Airlines continues the phased introduction of its commercial schedule, operations to Saint Lucia will take place weekly. On Fridays, the service will depart POS at 10:05 AM and arrive at SLU at 11:10 AM with a same-day return. 



For more information on the island of Saint Lucia and for booking your fun Caribbean escapes, visit Caribcation.org.