Vaccination drives step up in some Caribbean islands				




Dominica offers freebies to people getting vaccination



To encourage more people to get vaccinated, the government of Dominica has decided to offer exciting prizes to lucky winners.



According to WIC News, a special camp was setup at Mahaut Market on Saturday and residents who will have their jabs there will get the chance to win mobile phones, passes for exotic resorts and more.   



Rayburn Blackmoore, the current Minister for Justice, Immigration and National Security, said people would get an opportunity to win the following prizes:



An A12 Samsung Mobile Handset compliments from FLOW DominicaAn A02 Samsung Mobile HandsetOne day Pass for 2 Persons at Jungle Bay Resort Meals includedTwo day Passes at Cabrits Resort & Spa Kempinski Dominica meals includedA Gift Certificate valued at $250.00 from the Continental Store



Dominica has previously offered cash rewards for its residents who decided to have their COVID-19 vaccines.  



Everyone who gets vaccinated in the Mahaut camp on Saturday would get an opportunity to have their name placed in the final draw, which wiil be done on the same day. Residents can tune in via Facebook and DBS Radio for updates and announcement of winners.



Three vaccines are currently available in Dominica and these are Astrazeneca, Sinopharm, and Pfizer.



Face-to-face classes for vaccinated students in Trinidad and Tobago



Beginning October 4, students in secondary schools are now allowed to go back to their classes as long as they have their vaccine shots. 



The Ministry of Education in Trinidad and Tobago has released its guidelines for the new school year, and has emphasized on the importance of “strict adherence to existing COVID-19 protocols” to ensure that the reopening of classes is “seamless, minimally disruptive, consistent with overall COVID-19 mitigation measures.”



“To support the New Normal environment of schools and on the advice of the Ministry of Health (MOH), Cabinet approved the establishment of the position of one House Doctor, and a MOE Education District Health Services Unit (EDHSU) at each of the seven education districts inTrinidad,” the guidelines stated. These units will be the first responders in the event of a COVID-19- related emergency.



Aside from this, the MOE has also partnered with the MOH for vaccination exercises. “All staff employed at schools and students from the age of 12 are part of this vaccination drive,” the guidelines stated, but reiterated that this is only applicable to willing staff and students with parents’ consent.



To those who may not be able to show up in class physically, the MOE has begun distributing laptops and MiFi devices to teachers and students.