Fluid Balance In Body: Importance, Need, and Benefits				




Maintaining the fluid balance in your body is essential to keep you healthy, hydrated and fit. Water is the primary fluid needed by your body to stay hydrated for better physical and mental performance. As you know, 75% of your body is made up of water, which declines with growing age. Without proper fluid balance in your body, you will become vulnerable to several health-related issues along with skin problems.



You must know that the fluid leaves your body through breathing and skin all the time, which is about 700ml every day. Also, 1.5L of water gets released through urine, 100 mL gets lost through faeces, and 200mL leaves the body through normal perspiration. If you live in a temperate climate region, you will need at least 2.5L of water every day. So, you may be understanding the need for fluid balance in your body. Clinical trials are being carried out for understanding the importance of research liquids in increasing body-fluids and Lotilabs is a reputed name in this regard. 



In this guide, we present you with in-depth insight into the need for fluid balance in your body. You will understand fluid balance properly as we discuss its importance, need, and benefits concisely and easily. So, let’s dive in.







Importance of Fluid Balance In Your Body:



Fluid balance helps in protecting your body organs and acts as a cushion to joints.Fluid balance plays a vital role in the effective functioning of your kidneys to produce and excrete waste from the body.Fluid balance is a crucial aspect to maintain your body temperature. For instance, older people become vulnerable to diseases if their bodies become overheated due to lower fluid intake. Fluid balance primarily focuses on preventing dehydration in the body. This helps you avoid headaches, confusion, fatigue and irritation.Fluid helps to keep away medical conditions like urinary tract infections. It is also essential for the body to digest food.Fluid balance helps in avoiding constipation. Also, it is a crucial part of your blood that regulates nutrients in the body.







Reasons Why You Need Fluid Balance In Your Body



The primary reason why you need to maintain fluid balance in your body is to avoid dehydration. If your body runs out of fluid, it will become difficult for the internal organs to function correctly. A lower level of fluid consumption can lead to several medical conditions. This is why you need fluid balance primarily for medical use nowadays. Here is a brief explanation.







Medical Use:



Preventing And Treating Illness



If you become sick, you may lose fluid from your body via vomiting, bleeding, and diarrhoea. In such a medical condition, you will become highly vulnerable to dehydration as the kidney will face challenges coping with the fluid loss. This is why fluid balance is necessary for preventing and treating illness.



Oral Rehydration Therapy



Oral rehydration therapy or ORT is a treatment procedure for fluid replacement when a person gets severely dehydrated. You will find careful monitoring of fluid balance in an acute hospital setup. The fluid balance will determine the state of your hydration, cardiovascular function, and kidney function in the body.



If your fluid loss is higher than the amount of your fluid gain, you can consider it the medical term ‘negative fluid balance.’ In such scenarios, the patients are given fluid intravenously to compensate for the loss.If you have more fluid gain and less fluid loss, it is known as positive fluid balance. In such cases, you may have a problem with either your cardiovascular system or the kidney.



If you have low blood pressure, then the filtration rate of your kidneys will get reduced, enabling lesser fluid absorption and finally causing less urine output. So, always drink water to keep yourself hydrated and avoid such issues.







Skin-Care Needs: 



Maintaining Skin Elasticity



If you stay dehydrated, you will notice a lack of elasticity in your skin. If you want to know your skin’s elasticity, you have to gently pinch it and see if it bounces back or not. If not, you have to drink a lot of water to stay hydrated and plump the skin cells. Improper fluid balance causes dark circles beneath your eyes and makes you lose elasticity.



Avoiding Wrinkles And Signs of Aging



Fluid balance plays a crucial role in keeping you refreshed and hydrated to maintain the best skin elasticity. If you drink large amounts of water every day, you will less likely develop any type of wrinkles, scars, and soft lines. This will help you avoid the signs of ageing with glowing, bright skin. With your growing age, it will become challenging to retain water in your body. So, it becomes crucial to intake more and more water into your body system to keep your skin hydrated and ever-glowing. 







Benefits of Fluid Balance In Your Body



There are numerous benefits of maintaining the proper fluid balance in your body. Some of the crucial benefits are discussed below. 



1. It Forms Saliva



Fluid balance helps to form saliva in your body. This saliva plays a vital role in the digestion of your food. It also keeps the eyes, mouth and noses moist to prevent any damage or friction. Fluid intake also keeps your mouth clean and reduces the chances of tooth decay. 



2. Helps In Oxygen Delivery 



You must know that blood consists of 90% of water, and this blood helps transport oxygen to different parts of your body. So, you must maintain the fluid balance for smooth oxygen delivery in your body. 



3. Enhances Your Skin Health And Glaze



 As discussed above, dehydration of the skin makes it more vulnerable to disorders and premature ageing signs. This is why fluid balance is beneficial for the healthy and glowing skin of your face and body. 



4. Proper Regulation of Body Temperature



You must know that water stored in the middle layer of your skin comes up as sweat on the skin’s surface when your body temperature increases and heats up. With the evaporation of the sweat, your body eventually cools down.



If you have less water in your body, the heat storage will increase, and you will develop intolerance to heat strain. Here, a proper fluid balance will be beneficial to keep off the physical strain if you encounter heat stress while doing exercise. 



5. Helps In Digestion



Your bowel needs an ample amount of water to function correctly. If you stay dehydrated, you will develop digestive problems like acidity, cramps, or constipation. Here, fluid balance is beneficial as it avoids the risk of stomach ulcers and heartburn. 



6. Prevents Kidney Damage



The kidney is the fluid regulatory part of your body. If you drink insufficient amounts of fluid, you will develop the chances of having kidney stones and other issues. This is where fluid balance comes off as a beneficial factor by alleviating such risks. 



7. Cushions Your Brain And Spinal Cord 



Fluid balance helps to keep the brain structure and function well and good. Proper fluid balance benefits you with the smooth production of neurotransmitters and hormones. 



8. Helps To Flush Out Waste From Body



Fluid balance is beneficial for your body to process sweating and remove waste in the form of urine and faeces. 







Wrapping Up 



So, get the best use of this guide and understand the importance of fluid balance in your body. Ensure to drink at least 2.5L of water every day with no failure. Take a better step towards your healthy life today.