Updated travel advisory for Antigua and Barbuda				




The Government of Antigua and Barbuda has updated its travel advisory as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention added the country to its highest travel advisory on Monday.



Starting October 1st, 2021, all arriving passengers will require a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction) test for SARS-CoV-2 using a nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal swab taken within four days of their flight or fewer.



Children below the age of 5 years, entering Antigua, DO NOT REQUIRE a COVID -19 RT-PCR test.



Likewise, from October 1st 2021 all arriving passengers including returning nationals and residents are required to have received at least one dose of a World Health Organization (WHO) or Ministry of Health Wellness and the Environment (MOHWE) approved 2-dose COVID 19 vaccine or a single dose vaccine to be permitted entry into Antigua and Barbuda. Children below the age of (18) years arriving at a port of entry are exempted from this requirement.



Passengers who knowingly present false declarations of Covid-19 certificates on arrival will be fined according to the laws of Antigua and Barbuda.



Visitors may be required to undergo testing for COVID-19 on arrival or at the hotel or place of lodging as determined by the Health Authorities.



Passengers arriving by sea (private yachts/Ferry Services) are subject to quarantine according to guidelines issued by Port Health.



The wearing of face masks in public spaces is mandatory throughout Antigua and Barbuda and social/physical distancing protocols must be adhered to. Therefore, all passengers arriving in Antigua and Barbuda must wear a face mask on disembarkation, while on the airport compound and in all public places.



All arriving passengers must complete a Health Declaration Form which will be distributed on the plane and will be subjected to screening and temperature checks by Port Health Authorities upon arrival in Antigua and Barbuda.



Fully vaccinated passengers will be required to present a copy of their official Vaccination Record card (Vaccination Certificate) including dates when doses were administered.



Arriving passengers with symptoms of COVID 19 may be isolated as determined by the Health Authorities.



Transiting passengers/Crew members who require an overnight stay will be required to proceed to a hotel or government-designated facility to awaitdeparture.



All Marine Pleasure Craft and Ferry Services entering the waters of Antigua and Barbuda should contact the Antigua Port Authority, using VHF Channel 16, at least six (6) hours prior to arrival. Instructions will be given to guide the crafts to either the Nevis Street Pier or to a holding area.