Bahamas polls: “Minnis out! Davis in”				




Minnis is out as the Progressive Liberal Party (PLP) led by Attorney Phillip Davis won a landslide victory in the General Election held last Thursday, 16 September 2021.



Prime Minister Hubert Minnis, who had been hoping to become the first prime minister in 24 years to win a second five-year term, already conceded defeat and congratulated Davis.



“I offered him my best wishes as his government now faces the continued fight against COVID-19 and the restoration of our economy.”



The Bahamas is struggling to recover from its deepest economic crash since at least 1971 triggered by the pandemic and Hurricane Dorian.



Davis, who watched the results come in from Cat Island, thanked and promised Bahamians that a new day will come.



“In the morning we will rise as one nation and meet the challenges ahead. Thank you for seeing the possibilities of what we can build together for our children and grandchildren.”



Prime Minister Davis was officially sworn in as Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of The Bahamas on Friday 17 September 2021 at the Office of the Governor-General.



In his speech, Davis said no government can do great things on its own



“I am sure that my government can only succeed if we partner with the Bahamian people. We are going to listen, we are going to consult widely and we are going to bring people together.”







CARICOM Election Observation Mission



The CARICOM Election Observation Mission to the General Elections in The Bahamas on Thursday has declared that the elections reflect the will of the people.



“Initial assessment of Election Day activities by the CEOM is that the voters were able to cast their ballots without intimidation or fear.”



The six (6) member Observation Mission, which was led by Ian Hughes, Human Resource and Training Officer and Assistant to the Supervisor of Elections, Antigua and Barbuda Electoral Commission, also comprised nationals of Dominica, Jamaica and Suriname.



CARICOM Secretary-General Dr Carla Barnett has congratulated the newly elected Prime Minister of The Bahamas Mr Phillip Davis and his Progressive Liberal Party (PLP).