Trinidadians stranded in Barbados appeal to their government for assistance				




A number of citizens of Trinidad and Tobago in Barbados are finding themselves in a tough spot after their local government remained steadfast in closing its borders to incoming travelers, both citizens and tourists.



In a report by Barbados Today, Trinidadians who have been out of their country for too long have now been turning to “charitable organisations, public-spirited businesses and generous residents.”



A group in Barbados has already been formed to address the plight of the stranded Trinidadians, who need access to food, shelter, and healthcare until they are repatriated.



“Our ultimate goal is to get everyone home. We believe that everyone who resides in Trinidad should be allowed to go home. We believe that if that cannot happen, they should be provided with financial assistance, because these people are not working,” Shara Graham, Barbados’ Coordinator for the group T&T Citizens Overseas group said in an interview.



Caricom Community (CARICOM) Ambassador David Commission has expressed his concern about the issue.



“Several Trinidadians continue to have this problem, several of them have come to my attention and we try to help wherever we can,” the ambassador said in a separate interview with the Barbados daily.



At present, Trinidad and Tobago administration is facilitating periodic “repatriation flights” out of Miami, New York, Toronto and Barbados.   



On March 29, the court of Trinidad and Tobago has announced that the closing of thee borders is “constitutional” and a “proper response to the COVID-19 pandemic.”



But according to Graham, who is a Grenadian assisting in Barbados, Trinidadians as far away as Dubai, Australia and Europe are among those running out of money as they seemingly wait in vain.



“Some people, out of the kindness of their hearts, decide to help pay for somebody’s plane ticket back or send money on Western Union to help pay for people’s groceries,” Graham shared.



According to data from the World Health Organisation, Trinidad and Tobago has 8,026 confirmed cases of COVID-19 with 142 deaths since its first case in January 2020. Today, a total of 1,137 vaccine doses have been administered to its citizens as of 25 March 2021. Trinidad and Tobago has also received its supply of personal protective equipment from Europe last month.