NEWS WRAP: COVID-19 in the Caribbean				




British singer ‘quarantining in Caribbean’ for coronavirus



Singer Robbie Williams is reported to be “fairly sick” with COVID-19 and is currently quarantining on a Caribbean island after testing positive for coronavirus during a family holiday.



In a report by The Sun, the 46-year-old singer reportedly flew to the Caribbean island of St. Barts with his entire family on December 28 for a New Year’s getaway.



However, he has been forced to self-isolate and extend the trip after testing positive for COVID-19. Moreover, a source quoted by the paper said that the ex-member Take That, a famous British band in the 90s, has been “fairly sick.”



“He’s confined to the villa where he is staying with his family,” the source who was not named revealed in the interview. “He will have to remain in quarantine for up to 14 days.”



Last year, Williams disclosed that he was staying up a mountain in Switzerland together with his family as his way of adhering to social distancing measures to avoid getting the coronavirus.



Free Antigen Tests offered in Dominican Republic



The Dominican Government’s Ministry of Tourism and Public Health has announced that it will begin offering free antigen testing to all of its international visitors.



According to a press release published by the Associated Press, this is the Ministry’s response to meet the new Centers for Disease Control’s travel protocols that requires travelers returning to the U.S. to present proof of a negative COVID-19 or antigen test prior departure.



Beginning January 26, the rapid tests will be carried out by technical health personnel at the hotels. The test results will then be certified by the Dominican Republic’s Ministry of Health.



All hotels around the Caribbean country will be ready to assist their guests in coordinating their appointments as well as deliver their results.



British cruise line requires guests to get a COVID-19 vaccine



Saga Cruises, a British cruise line that brings tourists to islands such as Antigua, St. Lucia, Barbados, and Puerto Rico among others, is now requiring all of its guests to be vaccinated before boarding their ships for the series of cruises lined up for this year.



BBC reported that Saga, which specialises in holidays for the over-50s, wanted to protect customers’ health and safety.



The cruise line said it would delay restarting its travel packages until May to give customers enough time to get jabs.



Saga Cruises believes that its vaccination policy has strengthened its safety processes that are already planned for when its holidays resume. These include requiring cruise passengers to have a COVID-19 test before their trip, as well as a full medical screening.