COVID-19 vaccine reality in the Caribbean and impoverished nations				




COVID-19 has affected every person unsympathetically and in profound ways and through several vacancies, being developed globally by companies like AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna.



These companies possess immense resources for R&D and manufacturing capabilities that have produced hundreds of millions of doses, however, the vaccine distribution remains inequitable despite what experts recommend.



Poor and developing impoverished and countries do not possess the economic power, population size to leverage, or have a seat at the negotiation table like Canada, U.S. Australia, U.K. Brazil, and other industrialized nations.



The inoculation for many Latin America and the Caribbean, and even nations; the decades of disparities and social disadvantage in medicine will be erased overnight. And regardless of the humanitarian plea, this is a for-profit operation.



Sadly, this much-needed vaccine arrival is maybe slow or extremely late. The only hope for several regions may be through the World Health Organization, the United Nations, or NGOs, and the private sector like previously donated PPE’s, and ventilators.







Help may be closer than the Caribbean imagining if they can tango



Beneath the strategic big biotech power, medical experts noted Cuba had four vaccines, one of which is now going through phase-three trials. 



The Caribbean region could benefit tremendously and other poverty-stricken countries. However, many are standing on the sideline because of how few other nations would perceive them. Therefore, opted to stay out for now balancing infection rates, death, politics, and diplomacy.



Because of Cuba’s regime, its excellent work in the medical field has often overshadowed. And often get caught up in the geopolitical package.



This is not to minimize Cuba’s Communist system or calling for its vaccine. However, Cuba occupies one of the highest ratios of physicians per capita in the world, according to the United Nations.



After the Coronavirus had overloaded many medical systems, Cuba deployed doctors worldwide.



Reports showed that Jamaica for example welcomed 137 Cuban doctors in March 2020 and besides over 250 already practicing there. While some Caribbean islands have had their sights set on places like the U.S. and China, and India for their vaccine supplies, I believe nationalism will turn into the focus before opening the barrel to go elsewhere.



Medical professionals; noted that China has about four vaccines near the approval stage. India has two vaccines that are at the concluding stages of approval.







Let’s be COVID-19 friends even for today



A recent report has shown the Republic of Turkey agrees with China, and Argentina turned to Russia for supplies. Brazil Latin America’s largest nation who approved a reported 100 milling doses made by Sinovac and AstraZeneca and China to undertake immunization.



Many leaders recognize that some nations present a tremendous global threat to humanity. They have grave human rights violations, corrupted, brutal regimes, but beneath these public outcries, they recognize areas of strategic categories of business as usual.



The Caribbean should come together as one body to exercise collective power to decide what pharmaceutical company best suits these island needs to fight this pandemic. It starts with reporting the accurate number of infected people, even deaths.



COVID-19 does not discriminate regardless of race, sex, creed, colour, socio-economic status, or political system, or location. If one island suffers from an acute fever leading to a stroke, it will wash onto other shores.



Read full article here.







About The Author



R.D. Miller has been a member of the criminal justice field for over 15 years. He holds an MBA and a M.S. in criminal justice and leadership. More of his works here.







Editorial Disclaimer



The Caribbean News Now welcomes op-ed articles preferably 600 words or less with subheadings. Articles may be edited for clarity, legal ramifications, length or general taste at the editor’s discretion. We also reserve the right to refuse to publish submitted opinions for the same reasons. All articles must be signed. Any views or opinions are not intended to malign any religion, ethnic group, club, organization, company, or individual.



Opinion published do not necessarily reflect the views of The Caribbean News Now, its Publisher, its staff or its advertisers.