5 Minutes of Peace: Yoga for Today’s Woman Virtual Book Launch				




“5 Minutes of Peace: Yoga for Today’s Woman”, authored by Saint Lucia’s 2015 Young Entrepreneur of the Year, Monetta Wilson, will have a virtual book launch party.



The instructional yoga book contains several short routines that each require only 5 minutes to complete, offering women respite from their busy lives to achieve peace to help them live their best life.



When asked for her motivation, Monetta said she created the book to help women.



“I wanted everyone to have access to this book because I believe it can be so beneficial to busy women who have difficulty making time for themselves.”



Each routine in the book has detailed instructions and vibrant pictures done by regional artists. The book is available in paperback, hardcover and ebook.



5 Minutes of Peace: Yoga for Today’s Woman is Monetta’s third book. In 2018 she released a follow along kids yoga book featuring children from her rural St Lucian community. Yoga with Aunty Mo as well received locally and internationally by children and adults alike briefly making it to the top of Amazon book charts. In 2020 she released Heartsong: Poetry from the heart. This book of emotional poetry explores issues of life, love and loss with bold imagery and lyrical content.



The virtual book launch will be held on Friday, December 17, 2021, at 5 PM. During this event, members of the public will meet the author and get a chance to ask any questions.







About the author



Monetta Wilson is a certified yoga teacher and life coach. She owns and operates Sayana Yoga in St Lucia. She has taught at several locations in St Lucia, online and privately in clients’ homes.



She is the proud winner of the 2015 Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award from the St Lucia Chamber of Commerce.  “This Award [goes] to a young individual who can best demonstrate pioneering vision, innovation and leadership in respect of a new idea, new investment, new product, new markets or a new aspect of a new or an existing business.” 



This is Monetta’s third book. Yoga with Aunty Mo is a follow-along yoga book for children and Heartsong is a book of poetry.



When she is not teaching yoga you can find Monetta exploring nature, experimenting in the kitchen and creating content for her YouTube channel.  Monetta is passionate about social justice, racial equity and menstrual health awareness.