First woman and African chosen as Director-General of WTO				




World Trade Organisation‘s (WTO) General Council has chosen Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala of Nigeria as the organization’s seventh Director-General. She will become the first woman and the first African to hold the position.



Dr Okonjo-Iweala will take office effective 1 March. Her term, renewable, will expire on 31 August 2025.



WTO’s General Council spent 9 months for the selection process. 



Council Chair David Walker of New Zealand congratulated and formally welcomed Okonjo-Iweala.



“This is a very significant moment for the WTO. On behalf of the General Council, I extend our warmest congratulations to Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala on her appointment as the WTO’s next Director-General and formally welcome her to this General Council meeting.”



“Dr Ngozi, on behalf of all members I wish to sincerely thank you for your graciousness in these exceptional months, and for your patience. We look forward to collaborating closely with you, Dr Ngozi, and I am certain that all members will work with you constructively during your tenure as Director-General to shape the future of this organization,” Walker added.



Dr Okonjo-Iweala said a key priority for her would be to work with members to quickly address the economic and health consequences brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic.



“I am honoured to have been selected by WTO members as WTO Director-General,” said Dr Okonjo-Iweala. “A strong WTO is vital if we are to recover fully and rapidly from the devastation wrought by the COVID-19 pandemic. I look forward to working with members to shape and implement the policy responses we need to get the global economy going again. Our organization faces a great many challenges but working together we can collectively make the WTO stronger, more agile and better adapted to the realities of today.” Her full statement is available here.



Caribbean leaders and regional organisations like the CARICOM and OECS commended the historic WTO appointment.