CARICOM thanks India for more than 100,000 COVID-19 vaccine donations				




The Caribbean Community (CARICOM) expressed its gratitude for India’s generous contribution of more than a hundred thousand COVID-19 vaccines to the region in a tweet Thursday.



Among the major recipients of the vaccines are Barbados and Dominica, which will each get 100,000 doses and 70,000 doses, respectively.



In a report by the Caribbean News Weekly, a Regional Security System (RSS) aircraft has arrived at the Grantley Adams International Airport in Barbados carrying the Indian-manufactured Oxford-AstraZeneca.



The vaccines were first flown to Dominica’s Douglas–Charles Airport in neighbouring Barbados’ Air National Guard’s plane on Tuesday.



CARICOM’s secretary Irwin LaRocque called it “a tangible expression of goodwill in this challenging time.”



I thank you Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India@narendramodi for your generous contribution of 500,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccines to the Caribbean Community. A tangible expression of goodwill in this challenging time: Amb Irwin LaRocque Secretary-General CARICOM#VaccineMaitri pic.twitter.com/FrwFxyOfEg
— Caribbean Community (CARICOM) (@CARICOMorg) February 10, 2021




Barbados and Dominica are both reported to be willing to share their vaccines with other Caribbean neighbors.



Members of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), as well as Guyana and Trinidad will benefit from India’s donation, said Barbados Prime Minister Mia Mottley.



The leaders of both islands have earlier expressed their heartfelt thanks to India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the people of India, after getting swift approvals on their requests for supplies of vaccines.



Dominican Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit, who sought the vaccines on January 19, said he wasn’t hoping that Dominica would get the vaccines so soon.



“I must confess that I did not imagine that the prayers of my country would be answered so swiftly,” PM Skerrit said at a formal ceremony at the airport held soon after the plane with the vaccines arrived. “One would have thought and understood that in a global pandemic such as this, a nation’s size and might would have been the primary considerations,” he added.



In a February 9 letter obtained by India’s Hindustan Times, PM Skerrit stated that the vaccines will allow Dominica to “move forward with renewed hope and optimism, and to reignite the many projects that Covid-19 pandemic has negatively impacted.”



A gesture of goodwill, an example of support. Made in India vaccines arrive in Dominica. #VaccineMaitri pic.twitter.com/HeYYkjpDoR
— Dr. S. Jaishankar (@DrSJaishankar) February 10, 2021




Barbados PM Mottley also thanked India’s prime minister for “his quick, decisive, and magnanimous action” for considering Barbados’ humble request for an ample supply of vaccines.



She also disclosed that negotiations are underway with India to buy a second batch of the vaccine for Barbados.



“These are part of the first batch of a potential 200,000 doses for Barbados. We are asking and hoping that we can purchase the remaining 100,000 from the government of India,” Mottley said.



India's gift of 100,000 COVID-19 vaccines arrived Barbados earlier today. This was a very special moment for all Barbadians and I want to thank Prime Minister Modi for his quick, decisive, and magnanimous action in allowing us to be the beneficiary of these vaccines. pic.twitter.com/cSCb40c2mt
— Mia Amor Mottley (@miaamormottley) February 10, 2021
















File photo courtesy of the Office of the Indian Prime Minister