Suriname receives PPEs to fight COVID-19				




Press Release – The Government of Suriname has received a shipment of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to support its national response to the COVID-19 pandemic.



The consignment of supplies was procured through funding from the European Union (EU) through the 11th European Development Fund (EDF) Programme of Support for Health Security Strengthening for Prevention and Control of Outbreaks of Communicable Diseases in the Caribbean which is being implemented by the Caribbean Public Health Agency (CARPHA). 



The EU grant supports CARPHA Member States’ national COVID-19 preparedness and response and has financed the procurement of much needed medical supplies. 



CARPHA procured the supply of PPE for Suriname, which includes 625 protective coveralls, and 2,500 N95 respirators.



Executive Director of CARPHA Dr. Joy St. John emphasized the importance of this donation, stating that “This critical and timely support will strengthen the capacity of Suriname in times of greatest need. No effort is being spared to offer assistance to the citizens of our Member States and those who take care of them. CARPHA works closely with Member States to identify their needs and provides guidance and support in the continued fight against COVID-19.  The provision of PPE to Suriname would not have been possible without the unwavering support of the European Union and its commitment to the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in the Caribbean region.”



The donation was received by R. Gajadhar Sukul M.D., MSPH, Permanent Secretary Ministry of Health, who on behalf of the Government of Suriname expressed deep gratitude to the European Union for its support.



The EU Grant seeks to improve health security and strengthen the capacity of CARPHA Member States for the detection, surveillance, prevention, control, and response to epidemics of Communicable diseases, such as COVID-19. The Grant supports CARPHA Member States’ national COVID-19 preparedness and response and has financed the procurement of requisite medical supplies.  The funding was made possible through the Intra-ACP Cooperation under the 11th EDF.  The Secretariat of the Organisation of African, Caribbean, and Pacific States has supported CARPHA’s access to these resources for its regional COVID-19 response.