Jamaica COVID-19 trends moving in the right direction				




Jamaica GIS – Minister of Health and Wellness, Dr Christopher Tufton, says the coronavirus (COVID-19) trends are moving in the right direction but continues to implore Jamaicans to maintain the health and safety measures.



“We have to continue to be cautious. Hospitalisations are going down, the positivity rate is going down, the [virus] reproductive rate is below one – all suggesting that we [are] moving in the right direction,” Dr Tufton said while addressing a press briefing recently.



National Epidemiologist, Dr. Karen Webster Kerr, said that an analysis indicates that the increase in curfew hours helped to reduce the reproductive rate of the virus.



The reproductive rate is a measure of a virus’ transmission, or the number of new infections generated by each case.



A rate above one (+1) illustrates an increase in cases, one (1) means that the disease is alive but stable, and below one (-1) illustrates a decrease in cases.



Dr. Webster Kerr said that the longer curfew hours had a better effect on the reproductive rates of COVID-19.



“When we look on the change over time, we have shown a decrease, generally, over the last few weeks and you see a dramatic decrease [last] week,” said Webster.







Jamaica continues COVID-19 vaccination drive



The Ministry of Health has reported that eight per cent of the targeted population has been inoculated with the AstraZeneca vaccine.



Speaking at a virtual COVID press briefing, Dr Tufton said that 146,147 Jamaicans have received their first dose of the vaccine.



Of the total Jamaicans who received the first dose, 47 per cent are from Kingston, St. Andrew and St. Thomas; 21 per cent from Manchester, Clarendon and St. Elizabeth; 20 per cent from St. James, Hanover, Trelawny and Westmoreland, and 12 per cent from  Portland, St. Mary and St. Ann.



Dr. Tufton said the Ministry has started to administer the second dose of the vaccine, and that approximately 40,000 persons are due for their second dose in May.



He also urged that persons who have not been contacted should call the vaccination hotline at 876-888-ONELOVE (888-663-5683) or visit the Health Centre or location where their first dose of the vaccine was administered.



Meanwhile, the ministry is encouraging persons who have been vaccinated to continue practising the coronavirus (COVID-19) protocols as stipulated by the Government.