T&T adjusts restrictions for public holidays				




Trinidad and Tobago will adjust restrictions and curfew to the daytime period on the two public holidays scheduled this week, the Indian Arrival Day on Monday and Corpus Christi on Thursday, to limit movement during the day.



At a media briefing yesterday, Prime Minister Keith Rowley said while the daily 9:00 pm to 5:00 pm curfew in place with the State of Emergency will not be changed, there would be some adjustments for the public holidays. The movement will only be allowed for a limited period during the day.



Rowley also noted that the sale of pre-packaged food prepared by restaurants and fast food businesses will be banned, as attempts are being made to curb the number of COVID-19 cases in the islands.



“Regulations are being prepared to ensure that it is crystal clear that closure means closure. Restaurants are closed. Prepared food services and service delivery would not be available in the coming days and along with that hardware, we will close hardware for the next week. Closed.”



Meanwhile, supermarkets and bakeries will be allowed to continue the sale of foods, but “are required to be observant of the protocols.”



Supermarket Association of Trinidad and Tobago (SATT) has announced that on Monday and Thursday all its members will be closed to give their employees time to rest, relax and reflect.



The T&T Chamber in a release said it recognises the need for additional clarity, restrictions and adjusted curfew time on the upcoming public holidays announced by the Prime Minister to ensure compliance by all concerned.



“We are at a tipping point in dealing with the current pandemic. It is critical that every citizen understand that their behaviour plays an integral role in curbing the spread. Let’s each do our part – Be the One to save a life. While we are confident that the essential businesses are doing their part to keep their employees and consumers safe, we implore everyone to continue to be diligent and take the necessary steps to save lives.”