Haiti and Dominican Republic remain in UK’s Red List				




Two Caribbean nations are still in the United Kingdom’s (UK) Red List of countries to avoid travelling to due to high risk of COVID-19 infection.



Haiti and the Dominican Republic are among seven countries are still in the UK’s Red List, Loop News has reported. The other countries are Panama, Colombia, Peru, Venezuela, and Ecuador.



Less than 10% of Haiti’s population has received full shots of COVID vaccines, according to a report by CNBC that cited Pan American Health Organization Director Dr. Carissa Etienne. In Dominican Republic, cases continue to rise by the day with the latest count at 886 news cases on October 7, the Dominican Today has reported.



UK’s Red List used to have 54 countries and territories but beginning October 11th, the Red List will reduce to the aforementioned seven countries.



The proof of vaccination will be recognized from 37 new countries and territories.



“Government extends inbound vaccinated arrivals system to a further 37 countries and territories across the globe including India, South Africa and Turkey, meaning eligible vaccinated passengers arriving from rest of world countries only need to take a day 2 test in England,” the UK government said in a statement.



Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said in a tweet that the move was to ease the flow “to open up travel and provide stability for passengers and industry while remaining on track to keep travel open for good.”



The move will be also be seen as a boost to the airline industry and families separated during the pandemic, the BBC wrote.



Meanwhile, Trinidad and Tobago, Cuba, Guyana and Suriname were among the 47 countries and territories that were removed from the Red List. 



British High Commissioner to Trinidad & Tobago Harriet Cross expressed her elation to the news in a tweet, saying that it is “great news for all our tourists, families, students and both our economies.”



The BBC also reported that the government still wants to replace the day two “PCR test on arrival” with a cheaper lateral flow test for many schools in England after October 22nd.