House to house vaccination in Jamaica begins				




At least nine health centers across Jamaica have begun house to house vaccination as of Sunday, October 24, 2021.



Healthcare teams, including public health nurses and community health aides from Hanover, Manchester, St. Elizabeth, Trelawny, Westmoreland, St. Ann, St. Mary, Portland, and St. Thomas have been deployed. They will go house to house in the communities to administer the COVID-19 vaccines to shut-ins, the disabled and the elderly.



According to Health and Wellness Minister Dr Christopher Tufton, the programme intends to reach out to those who are in far-flung areas.



“This house to house vaccination programme is intended to take vaccines to communities that are not close to a fixed site and to persons who are not able to travel to these sites.”



The programme represents another phase in Jamaica’s vaccination efforts in line with the principle of “national equity”.



Tufton thanked the health workers especially those who are part of the house to house vaccine project.



“I want to salute our public health workers who continue to show commitment to the COVID efforts, walking the hills and valleys to reach our most vulnerable citizens.”



The government of Jamaica continues to encourage citizens and residents to get vaccinated to prevent serious illness, hospitalization and or death associated with COVID-19. 



In an earlier statement, Prime Minister Andrew Holness has appealed to health professionals and subject experts to play a more active and visible role in combatting the misinformation that is being spread online and elsewhere.



As of October 24, Jamaica has administered a total of 849,003 doses of Astra Zeneca vaccine – 315,036 of which have completed the two prescribed doses. Meanwhile, 44,693 doses of the single-dose Johnson and Johnson vaccine has been given.



Residents who wish to be vaccinated can visit http://vaccination.moh.gov.jm or call 888-One-Love (663-5683) for information on the nearest COVID-19 vaccination site