Sydney reopens to vaccinated people				




Barbershops, salons, gyms, cafés and bars in Sydney, Australia have reopened to fully vaccinated customers for the first time in more than 100 days.



Sydney reopened on Monday after 73.5% of the New South Wales state population aged 16 and older were fully vaccinated and more than 90% have received at least one dose.



Some businesses opened at midnight due to demand from people impatient to enjoy their freedom. Sydney’s lockdown began on June 26.



Authorities said that the current infection rate and numbers of COVID-19 patients being admitted to hospitals were lower than the modelling they had predicted. Hence, the reopening.



“So that’s positive and gives hope and confidence as we open up in a measured way we’re in a very good position to keep people safe,” said New South Wales Premier Dominic Perrottet said.



 Perrottet encouraged everyone to be their brother’s keeper as they live into the “new normal” era.



“There are still restrictions in place, it’s not a free for all. It is opening up in a measured way and if everyone can look after each other and respect each other, we can get people back into work, we can get businesses open, while at the same time keeping people safe.”



Perrottet took advantage of the relaxed restrictions – visiting his regular barbershop for a fresh cut this morning.



Residents are also now allowed to venture more than five kilometres from their homes.



When New South Wales reach the 80% benchmark, residents will be free to travel overseas for the first time since March last year and more pandemic restrictions will be removed.







Sydney restriction eases



From Monday, October 11, the following restrictions will ease for those who are fully vaccinated in New South Wales:



Masks are required for all indoor settings, but no longer required in outdoor settings except for front-of-house hospitality staffHome gatherings return with up to 10-visitors at any one time (excluding children aged 12 and under)Outdoor gatherings and recreation returns with up to 30 people (a two-person limit for those not fully vaccinated)Visitors to residents in aged care facilities and disability homes are permitted in line with their policiesGyms, indoor recreation and sporting facilities reopen with density limits and up to 20 people in classes. Indoor swimming pools also reopen for lessons, training and rehab activitiesNon-critical retail reopens with density limits, as well as personal services such as hairdressers, spas, beauty and nail salons, tattoo and massage parlours for up to five clientsHospitality reopens with density limits for up to 20 people per booking. Drinking indoors must be seated, but drinking outdoors may be seated or standing.Major recreation facilities including stadiums, theme parks, and racecourses reopen with density limits for up to 5000 peopleEntertainment facilities including cinemas and theatres reopen with density limits ot 75 per cent fixed seated capacityInformation and education facilities including art galleries, museums and libraries reopen with density limits.Weddings ceremonies and funerals are permitted with density limits for up to 100 people (or a five-person limit for people who are not fully vaccinated), eating and drinking must be seated, and dancing is permitted.Places of worship reopen with density limits, up to 10 fully vaccinated singers may performRestricted travel within LGAs and 5km radius removedTravel holidays between regional local government areas are permittedIn regional NSW, staff can return to work on October 11 if they have had at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine but must be fully vaccinated by November 1