UAE-based consultancy firm committed to changing lives				




When Montreal Management Consultants Est. (MMCE) opened its doors to the CBI market more than a decade ago, it set its sights on one goal: deliver a promise of security and freedom to its clientele through second citizenship.



That mission evolved through the years. Now, it’s not just about changing the lives of potential clients through the Citizenship by Investment (CBI) programme; MMCE has committed itself to help a Caribbean nation to build back better.



Since 2008, the UAE-based firm has been working closely with the Commonwealth of Dominica, a country In the Caribbean that runs one of the world’s oldest CBI programmes. This programme allows foreigners to obtain Dominican passports after investing in the government fund, which is used to finance various infrastructure projects like housing and healthcare.



This long-standing relationship has elevated MMCE into a government-authorized agent of Dominica, and later, becoming a trusted and reliable partner in the government’s “Housing Revolution Programme”—the most extensive project ever funded by the CBI, which aims to provide 5,000 housing units to those who lost their homes to Tropical Storm Erika in 2015 and Hurricane Maria in 2017.



MMCE’s subsidiary, MMC Development Ltd, oversees the development in the country. To date, about a dozen of housing projects across the island is completed, and about 2,000 homes have already been turned over for free to Dominicans in the last three years.



The consultancy firm has also helped build a hospital and twelve new healthcare centres, as well as schools and major roads on the island through the CBI programme.



Most recently, MMCE has also been entrusted with the nation’s most ambitious project – the construction of Dominica’s first international airport, which is set to be completed by 2025. MMCE CEO and President Anthony Haiden noted that the project is the biggest contracted project not only in the history of Dominica but also in the history of the Eastern Caribbean region.