U.S. donates ultra cold freezer to CARPHA				




Media Release –  The Caribbean Public Health Agency (CARPHA) received an ultra-cold freezer from the United States Embassy in Port of Spain, which is part of a donation that includes laboratory supplies, laboratory coats, and scrubs. 



U.S. Chargé d’Affaires Shante Moore made the donation, valued US$45,065, to CARPHA.  The handover took place at CARPHA’s headquarters in Port of Spain Trinidad.  On hand to accept the donations were Dr Lisa Indar Director of Surveillance, Disease Prevention, and Control Division, and Dr Mark Sami, Director of Corporate Services. CARPHA Executive Director, Dr Joy St. John joined the handover event remotely.



The donation will augment CARPHA’s stock of consumable supplies which are used for testing SARS-COV-2 samples received from the Member States. Supplies include personal protective equipment (PPE) for laboratory staff to collect, transport, and process samples safely.



Dr St. John stated “CARPHA is very appreciative of this generous donation which we will use to good effect in our lab for our work with our 26 Member States. We enjoy the working relationship with the U.S. Government and CDC which has been very strategic in the COVID-19 response.”



“The Ultra Cold Freezer is very much appreciated. The UCF capacity will be used to store samples especially those for gene sequencing, COVID-19 positive cases, and will act as a repository for other important specimens. We are also grateful for the pipette tips which have proven very difficult to source because of shortage on the international market,” said Dr Lisa Indar.



In his remarks, Chargé d’Affaires Moore said, “The Caribbean Regional Office of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) made this donation in support of CARPHA’s wider COVID-19 vaccine implementation plan for Member States as we try to end this pandemic.  We are working together with our Caribbean public health partners to end this pandemic and to save lives.”